# Configuring the operating system 

OpenHoldem requires specific system settings in order to correctly
intuit the game state from the pixels on-screen, and to correctly take
poker actions. They have to be configured the right way before you can
start working at your bot. Newer versions of OpenHoldem help you with
this task; they execute automatical configuration checks and diagnose
incorrect settings. However: you shouldn’t rely completely on these
configuration checks. Better get things right in advance. And be extra
careful, if you use a two-computer-stealth-setup: then it is a must to
setup both PCs in absolutely the same way.

## Color depth 

The display color depth must be set to 24-bit or 32-bit. Most Table Maps
are designed for 32-bit color depth, so your display should be set to
that for maximum compatibility with others’ work.

![image](images/openholdem/installation/config_32_bit_colour.png)

Right-Click on the desktop -\> properties -\> Settings

## Display resolution 

You need enough display resolution to contain all poker client windows.
In general, the minimum acceptable display resolution is 1024x768. The
smaller resolutions 800x600 and 640x480 do not have enough real estate
to show both the poker client and OpenHoldem without overlapping
windows.

## Font smoothing 

Font smoothing should be turned off in order to interpret font pixels
correctly. Our objective is to interpret the pixels as presented by the
poker client, and not post-mangled by the operating system. To disable
font smoothing: right click the desktop, and choose
Properties–\>Appearance–\>Effects. Disable smoothed fonts in this
dialog.

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/installation/config_smoothing_disabled.png" />
<p>Font Smoothing disabled / Font Smoothing enabled from Notepad</p>
</figure>

If you are looking for a software that assists easy configuration of
this setting consider <http://karpolan.com/software/cleartype-switch/>

## Window style (themes)

Windows 2000 has only one window style. There are no themes, there is no
candy blue coloring around windows, so you are OK if you use Windows
2000. With Windows XP (or later), it is suggested to use the “Classic”
theme, which will present windows in the same style as Windows 2000. You
are of course free to use whatever theme you want, but be aware that
public Table Maps usually do not work unless they are used with the same
theme that they were designed for. Most OpenHoldem botters use Windows
2000 or the Windows XP Classic theme.

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/installation/config_classic_vs_normal.png" />
</figure>

## Windows XP and ClearType 

If you use Windows XP, it is recommended that you disable ClearType
(<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ClearType>) fonts, for the same reason
that we suggest you disable font smoothing. Here is the link to the
Microsoft web page on how to do this: <a
href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/tuner/Step1.aspx "
class="uri">http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/tuner/Step1.aspx
</a>.

## Language settings

Your language settings affect the behaviour of your system in several
ways:

- how to display special characters

- what to use as the decimal separator: dot or comma.

- the language used by your poker-client

Language settings may seem to be nearly irrelevant if you are a newbie,
but incorrect settings can affect the scraper engine and the autoplayer
severly, even up to complete failure. The only settings, that are
guaranteed to work are english text with US keyboard. Others may or may
not be compatible. If you are new to botting be smart and stay on the
safe side; there have been more than enough lengthy threads by desperate
newbies — mostly caused by incorrect settings.
