# Favourite Failures

This chapter will teach you about the most common beginners mistakes.
They all have been reported at least several times; solving these
“problems” over and over again has cost hundreds of newbies (and
especially the forum-regulars!) quite some time and nerves. But the good
news is: these issues are easy to avoid once you are aware of them. And
the even better news: writing this manual took some time (due to all
these newbies ;-); in the mean-time we managed to prevent these beginner
mistakes and to auto-detect most of the rest. There even is a new
feature called “Problem Solver” that will assist you a little bit up to
the point where OpenHoldem is able to act.

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/favourite_failures/menu_problem_solver.jpg" />
</figure>

But it won’t hurt if you read on and learn to know these potential
pitfalls.

## OpenHoldem does not connect to the table

*Reason: Table not recognized because of incorrect system-settings.*

To recognize a table the following criteria have to match:

- size of the window

- table-title

- optional tablepoints r\$tablepointX if you have two very similar maps
  for the same casino, e.g. 6-max and 9-max.

Usually the problem is the window-size caused by “wrong”
system-settings. Tablepoints are rarely used, but you should be aware of
their existence, especially if you downloaded somebody elses map from
the forum.

## OpenHoldem does not play (I) and the autoplayer-button can’t be enabled

*Reason: No good input.*

The autoplayer of all more recent versions (4.x+) will immediatelly be
enabled after connection to a table, but it can only act if the scraper
recognizes your cards and at least two buttons.

## OpenHoldem does not play (II)

*Reason: no stable input (“balance-stability” and “card-stability”)*

One safety-measure to avoid incorrect plays is the option to wait for
“balance-stability”. Without reasonable input you can be sure to become
a victim of the GIGO-principle (garbage in – garbage out). The example
below shows a FullTilt mini-table, where the regions for player-names
and balances partially overlap.

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/favourite_failures/balance_stability.jpg" />
</figure>

There are several counter-meassures that will help you to deal with such
issues:

- avoid mini-tables

- make sure, that regions don’t overlap

- turn off all kind of animations

- *always use replay-frames* for building tablemaps and for
  investigation if you experience problems at a real casino.

## OpenHoldem calls any hand

*Reason: Tablemap does not detect bet amounts.*

If OpenHoldem calls every hand — except maybe the strong ones — this is
probably neither a bug in OpenHoldem nor bad logic in the bot, but a
problem with the Tablemap or with your settings again: The TM does most
probably not recognize your opponents bet, so OpenHoldem thinks you have
a free play and calls.

Whenever you experience strange actions, you should ask yourself the
following questions
(<http://forum.winholdem.net/wbb/viewtopic.php?f=38&t=12408>):

- is the scraper reading the bet values correctly?

- is the scraper reading my cardfaces correctly?

- is the scraper reading opponent cardbacks correctly?

- do the blind values look sane?

- does the site provide handnumbers?

- are my action buttons being seen when my turn arrives?

You can check the values for these symbols in the debug-tab of the
formula-editor.

     = betround 
     = sblind 
     = bblind 
     = handnumber 
     = nplayersdealt 
     = myturnbits

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/favourite_failures/debug_tab.jpg" />
</figure>

If you want to investigate in detail how OpenHoldem did choose a
decision, you should lookup the full autoplayer-trace in the log-file.

## OpenHoldem pushes any hand

*Reason: can’t connect to license server. ;-)*

Just kidding – we don’t have any license server. But in other forums we
have seen dialogues like below:

> Customer: OpenHoldem pushes every hand.
>
> (some days later): Any response?
>
> Admin: Our license server is down.
>
> Customer: This can be the reason for allin?
>
> Admin: Yes. One reason.
>
> Customer: I bought early August. Now it is September.
>
> Admin: Sorry. My partner is on holiday.

## OpenHoldem does not work in ManualMode

*Reason: Not your turn or userchair not recognized.*

To work properly OpenHoldem must have recognized the userchair. Also
some symbols are only valid when it is your turn to act. So you should
highlight some buttons in ManualMode; just click them; usually they are
grey, which means not existent.

## OpenHoldem executes the wrong action

    ********* Basic Info ***********************************************************
    2016-12-25 10:48:24 - Version:       9.4.3.0 
    ...
    2016-12-25 10:48:24 - f$betsize:       65.00 
    2016-12-25 10:48:24 - Formulas:      FCKR. 
    2016-12-25 10:48:24 - Buttons:       FC..A 
    2016-12-25 10:48:24 - Best action:   f$betsize 
    2016-12-25 10:48:24 - Action taken:  f$call

Sometimes new users complain that OpenHoldem executes the wrong action.
The most common reason – after bad bot-logic – are “missing” buttons
that did not get recognized by the tablemap. In the example above no
raise-button could not be found that at many casinos gets used to
confirm the betsize. As a consequence OpenHoldem chose a so-called
backup-action.

## OpenHoldem acts multiple times

*Reason: Improper bring-delay and scraper-delay.*

The bring-delay should be somewhat smaller than the scraper-delay.
Otherwise it can happen that OpenHoldem acts but bring doesn’t display a
new image in time. So when the next heart-beat-cycle starts, OpenHoldem
will scrape the exact same game-state another time and act another time.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.1*. This problem has been improved by marking frames as unstable
when OpenHoldem acts, so OpenHoldem has to wait for a certain number of
stable frames again. However the problem may still appear, if your
scraper- and bring-delay do mismatch or if you don’t wait for stable
frames.

</div>

## OpenHoldem permanently clicks sitout / sitin

*Reason: Tablemap does not correctly scrape sitin/sitout.*

The tablemap probably does not correctly determine the state of the
sitin- or sitout-region; as a consequence the bot will think its action
had no effect and will try over and over again. There is a funny legend
back from the ancient times of WinHoldem or OPI: the tablemap (a
built-in feature of the software at that time) once again failed because
of a casino-update. As a consequence lots of “players” were suddenly
sitting in and sitting out once per second. It must have been a devilish
joy for their opponents; innummerable bots got reported and finally
busted.

So always remember: Bots are very stupid and very volatile beings.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.2*. This can no longer happen as we execute the hopper functions
only once every 4 seconds.

</div>

## OpenScrape does recognize something, but OpenHoldem does not (I)

*Reason: Different versions of the same map.*

A very common “bug”-report: some beginner has just fixed his first map
and complains that OpenScrape recognizes the bets, the fonts of the
player names or whatever; but OpenHoldem fails to do so. The reason is
quite simple: he usually has multiple versions of the map in his
scraper-folder and has simply loaded the wrong map. If you have the
auto-connector enabled, OpenHoldem will load the “first” map that fits.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.3*. This gets now prevented as OpenHoldem checks if multiple maps
with the same sitename exist.

</div>

## OpenScrape does recognize something, but OpenHoldem does not (II)

*Reason: Halfmade tablemap*

Scraping is the most time-consuming part of the heartbeat-cycle, so
OpenHoldem does implement some reasonable optimizations. It will only
scrape names, bets and balances of a certain chair, if that chair is
occupied. If OpenScrape and your tablemap are able to scrape those
regions but OpenHoldem does not do so, then you have most probably
forgotten to define pXseated or uXseated.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.4*. This gets now prevented, as OpenHoldem checks for complete
tablemnaps.

</div>

## OpenHoldem works locally, but not remotely with bring

*Reason: Different system configurations on your casino-machine and your
bot-machine.*

It is a quite common beginners mistake to setup the casino-machine in a
different way than the bot-machine. The casino-client will be rendered
in a different way, so OpenHoldem will no longer be able to scrape the
screenshots displayed by Bring. If you don’t want to install OpenHoldem
on the casino-machine to check the settings, the only way to fix that
problem is a careful manual walk-through (experts could clone a VM or
deploy some registry-settings).

## OpenHoldem does not load my DLL (I).

*Reason: Missing or incorrect libraries.*

Most DLLs use external functionality and therefore depend on supporting
libraries. Most often this is msvcrt (MicroSoft Visual Studio C++
RunTime Library). Also the correct version is important. OpenHoldem
requires currently Visual Studio 2010 Professional, but Perl needs 2005.
Checking the dependencies of your DLL with MicroSoft Dependency Walker
will help. You can downlaod this tool from
<http://www.dependencywalker.com/>.

## OpenHoldem does not load my DLL (II).

*Reason: Libraries not found.*

Even if you have all libraries installed, it might be, that your
operating system does not find your DLL or other required libraries.
Windows uses the following “Dynamic-Link Library Search Order”

1.  The directory from which the application loaded.

2.  The current directory.

3.  The system directory. Use the GetSystemDirectory function to get the
    path of this directory.

4.  The 16-bit system directory. There is no function that obtains the
    path of this directory, but it is searched.

5.  The Windows directory. Use the GetWindowsDirectory function to get
    the path of this directory.

6.  The directories that are listed in the PATH environment variable.
    Note that this does not include the per-application path specified
    by the App Paths registry key. The App Paths key is not used when
    computing the DLL search path.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.5*. This is the default search order for Windows XP,
SafeDllSearchMode disabled. It might be different for your operating
system or configuration. For details please refer to
<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms682586(VS.85).aspx>.

</div>

## OpenHoldem checked, but didfold is true

*Reason: TM does not recognize buttons correctly.*

If you get a freeplay, it might be that your check-button (or a
check/fold-button!) is at the same location where usually the
fold-button is located. If you have a simple way to detect buttons (e.g.
by colour) you probably will recognize that button as fold. So
OpenHoldem — not seeing a check-button — will check by clicking “fold”
and didfold will be true. Similar things can happen if buttons move,
e.g. a call-button at the raise-position when you can only fold or call
allin.

## History symbols do not work

*Reason: Incorrect hand-reset.*

Some symbols only require the current gamestate to be calculated (e.g.
dealerchair, balance, nbetstocall). Others (like didcallround1,
nbetsround3 etc.) require a complete game-history and will reset at the
beginning of a new hand. If they all are zero (or -1), you have probably
caused an incorrect hand-reset, e.g. by temporary occlusion. You should
avoid occlusion by any means.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.6*. This problem has now practically disappeared, since OpenHoldem
supports ten different handreset-methods, but only accepts a hand-reset
if multiple methods fire at the same time.

</div>

## When the blinds increase OpenHoldem keeps the old values

*Reason: tournament not recognized.*

Detecting the blind values correctly is extremely important, as it
affects all kinds of other symbols. Therefore OpenHoldem provides the
ability to automatically lock the blinds as soon as they are known and
reasonable. For the current hand and (for cashgames) for the rest of the
session (after several hands have been played). As a consequence
OpenHoldem needs to know if the current table belongs to a tournament
and the blinds may go up. In the past there has been a tablemap-symbol
r\$istournament, but way too much beginners (and veterans too!) mixed it
up, so OpenHoldem detects tournaments now automatically based on several
different factors;

- tournament identifiers in the title (“Sit&Go”, “MTT”, “satellite”,
  “qualifier”, ...)

- beautiful sum of chips at the table

- positive value of the symbol buyin (that can be read from the titlebar
  or scraped from the table)

- scraped MTT_symbols like players_remaining.

However in some very rare cases it might be that all methods of
recognizing a tournament fail. Some casino tables don’t display helpful
titles or have no titles at all. The tablemap might not provide support
for optional tournament information and even the “beautiful sum of
chips” might not fit if you connect in the middle of an MTT. The methods
of detecting tournaments still get fine-tuned, so if you experience this
problem please get in contact with us. Istournament-help-threat:
<http://www.maxinmontreal.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=117&t=16104>.

## Pokerval does not work

*Reason: Pokerval is a bitvector. You are probably confusing logical
operations and bitwise operations.*

In short: boolean operations work on true/false-values; bitwise
operations work on long series of 0/1-values simultaneously. Lots of
wisdom has been written about both topics — too much to explain it here.
If you don’t really understand what I am talking about, then you
*really* should take a pause from coding and study the chapter about
OH-script. There is no way around it.

## PokerTracker does not work

*Reason: Invalid Sitename in the TableMap*

OpenHoldem supports Poker Tracker functionality for a dozen different
casinos. To query the correct stats OpenHoldem must know, at what casino
you currently play. This happens by the TableMap symbols *sitename* and
*network*. Please refer to the PokerTracker and TableMap section of this
manual for a detailed explanantion what to do.

## Quickfolding AA and other unexpected plays

*Reason: Unstable frames and careless coding.*

Consider code like below:

    ##list77## 
    AA KK QQ
    AKs AQs
    AKo

    ##f$prefold##
    ((betround == 1) AND NOT list77)

This code basically says: “do prefold, if is is preflop and I don’t have
a very great hand”. However you only get stable frames when it is your
turn. So it might be that you get a mis-scrape, e.g. occlusion by a
rebuy-window. Or the poker-room might update its display, temporarily
showing only one of your wonderful aces. So OpenHoldem can’t recognize
your great hand and folds. To avoid that problem, you need more
fail-safe coding and explicitly specify the hands to fold: “do prefold,
if it is preflop and I have a trash-hand.”

    ##list13##
    72o ....

    ##f$prefold##
    ((betround == 1) AND list13)

This way mis-scrapes will not be able to defeat your fine strategy.
Instead a mis-scrape will only keep f\$prefold false and delay the
folding of trash. The same problem might occur in all functions that
might act on unstable frames (when it is not your turn), especially
f\$prefold, f\$sitin, f\$sitout, f\$leave, f\$rebuy and f\$chat.

<div class="rem*">

* 1.7*. This failure gets now prevented too, as OpenHoldem will will
execute f\$prefold only if both cards are known. However: as you can see
lots of things could go wrong if you are careless. Therefore it is
always a good idea to keep these potential pitfalls in mind and prefer a
conservative style of coding your bot.

</div>

## OpenHoldem acts, but nothing happens (Windows 7)

Some people have the problem that OpenHoldem “does not act” despite the
log clearly shows the opposite:

    2016-03-26 00:23:05 -   Best action:   f$betsize = 30.00
    2016-03-26 00:23:05 -   Action taken:  f$betsize

The reason: OpenHoldem did act, but the casino did not react. As it
turned out this problem was caused by Windows user account control
(UAC), that prevents the generation of virtual keyboard events.
OpenHoldem (or Bring) simply missed the necessary right to generate
mouse-clicks and keyboard-events. To fix this just modify the
permissions like below.

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/favourite_failures/uac_bring_settings.jpg" />
</figure>

If all else fails run OpenHoldem as administrator.

![image](images/openholdem/favourite_failures/uac_oh_settings_01.png)

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/favourite_failures/uac_oh_settings_02.png" />
</figure>
