# Casino software

If possible try to install and run the casino with a normal, i.e.
restricted user-account and not as administrator. If the casino software
demands admin privileges to install/update/run, and if you’ve
successfully configured your ninja-folder, then their software running
as admin cannot automatically read your stealth drive(s) / folder(s)
without physically taking ownership of the folder in order to gain
access.

However most online casinos EULAs are notoriously vague when it comes to
the measures they are allowed to take. The most openly discussed ones is
looking in your browser history, or taking screenshots of your desktop.
These are also both illegal in most countries but most casinos do it.
For example in
<a href="http://www.pokerstars.net/typeB_EN/poker/room/terms/ "
class="uri">http://www.pokerstars.net/typeB_EN/poker/room/terms/ </a> we
see

> 5.6. You agree that PokerStars may take steps to detect and prevent
> the use of prohibited EPA Programs. These steps may include, but are
> not limited to, examination of software programs running concurrently
> with the PokerStars Software on the User’s computer.

Until you know you are competent enough we suggest that you avoid
networks with high security awareness. That said there are much easier
ways for casinos to flag you and it is usually has to do with player
greed (for example long hours, fixed schedule to the second, no breaks).

An advanced step (not covered in this article) is to install/enable
file/folder monitoring/auditing that will allow you to track anything
that happens to your safe folder. Note that doing this would not stop
admin/casino software from taking ownership but you’d have a record of
the event and would be warned which is better than nothing.
