# The Truth about Stealth 

## What’s that all about

The following chapters will give you some introduction to
anti-detection. They deal with 2-computer-stealth-setups, bring, VmWare,
Ninja-folders and rootkits. These methods are overkill and unneccessary
for the majority of smaller sites (just rename the executable and be
good), but not enough for the very few sites that care.

## Which sites don’t care about bots

As a rule of thumb, you don’t have to worry much at smaller sites.
Smaller poker sites usually don’t have the knowhow and the resources to
really care about bots. They are a good start for any new botter.

## Which sites care about bots

Apart from Stars there are three sites, that are known to care: Cake,
Party and FullTilt. To our best knowledge they do care — sometimes and a
little bit.

## Your worst enemy

Your worst enemy are not casino security departments, but the players at
your table. Every bum at NL 2 owns Poker Tracker nowadays, so if you
play too long hours, win too much or run 20 accounts with identical
stats you will be reported very soon. Once you get reported, sites have
to care, even if they actually love bots. They will have to investigate
your account and ban you. And they will be praised for their
anti-bot-policy on TwoPlusTwo, even more than sites which act proactive.
So use your brain and stay under the radar.

## “The best wife of all”

Nearly every day we have to deal with newbies, that have no clue at all,
but want to bot at PokerStars. They insist stubbornly on Stars and they
hassle the regulars with questions about the deepest secrets of stealth
or beg for comments about the newest “kickass-stealth-setup”, they just
have invented. We simply can’t tell them — except their setup will get
their asses kicked; but that’s not, what they want to hear.

Believe us, it is possible to bot at Stars, and the most honourable
botters play there; the great choice of soft tables and the friendly
support are wonderful. But PokerStars will require some advanced methods
of anti-detection, so before you try to bot there, consider the
following points:

- As a rule of thumb 99% of all new botters fail horribly; they never
  reach the state, where they should play for real-money or worry about
  stealth. Why should we tell them all our secrets?

- As a newbie you don’t have a winning bot, so there is no point at all
  to play for real money; you should concentrate on development first,
  using ManualMode and PokerAcademy.

- Why Stars at all? There are so many things to care about: bot-logic,
  tablemaps, hoppers and stealth. Even if you have just created your
  first bot and are confident, that it is winning, it is adviceable to
  narrow down the number of issues, forget about stealth and start at
  smaller sites that care a bit less. Smaller sites have enough traffic
  and fishy games at the lower limits to give you a start. You have just
  rootet out one big issue and can concentrate on other problems;
  believe us, there will be enough of them.

- Starting at smaller sites with a more simple setup will teach you the
  basics, that are a prerequiste to play at tougher sites one day.

- Perfect stealth can’t be discussed in public obviously, so give us
  some time to get aquainted with you. Score lots of hero-points and
  maybe one day you will be a successful and honourable botter too. One
  day you will be allowed to ask The <span class="smallcaps">Great
  Max</span> himself.
