# A (few) word(s) of caution

## Effort

This is a lengthy manual, and for good reason. This is a complicated
hobby with a steep learning curve. If you are reading this and coming
into this hobby for the first time, and you have the expectation of
running a profitable poker bot tomorrow, then we kindly suggest you
close this manual and look elsewhere. This hobby is very rewarding,
intellectually, academically and monetarily, but that reward does not
come without effort. Maybe one of the \$20 pre-packaged bots will meet
your needs, if truly all you want to do is to MakeMoneyFast. You will
find a list of interesting software for example at
<http://www.pokerstars.com/poker/room/prohibited/>.

## Scams

There are people who will try to sell you partial or complete
OpenHoldem-based poker bot solutions. The same warning applies to these
offers as to the \$20 click-Setup.exe-and-go poker bots. Ask yourself
how much you would sell a complete poker bot for if it was profitable
and made you money every day, even while you were sleeping? A simple
calculation should clarify this point:

- Say you have a pokerbot that makes \$2 per table per hour.

- Most sites allow you to run 4 tables simultaneously without issue.
  This equates to \$8 per hour.

- Further assume you run your bot 6 hours per day to better model human
  play. That gives you \$48 per casino per day.

- If you then run your bot 5 days per week, you stand to make \$12,480
  per year.

Multiply that by the number of casinos you play at, and you have a
reasonable target selling price. Would you be willing to pay that amount
of money for an unproven, complete, winning poker bot? How much do you
think a \$100 or \$500 complete poker bot is really worth?

There is a long history of people being scammed out of hard earned money
for winning poker bot solutions. Sometimes lots of money. Donâ€™t be
stupid...the age-old maxim applies here: if it sounds too good to be
true, it probably is.

## Gray area

The hobby of poker botting is arguably a legal and moral gray area.
While other online real money activities actively allow and even
encourage the use of bots (stock trading, currency speculation, sports
betting, etc), online poker has taken a somewhat unusual stance on this
topic. Some casinos will attempt to detect your bots with various means,
including spyware-like actions of scanning your hard drives and taking
screen shots, statistical analyses of mouse clicks, post-analyzing hand
actions for consistent behaviors and so on.

What this means, however, is that one must take caution when poker
botting to ensure that you protect yourself, your money balances, and
your private information on your computer. All of these anti-bot
detection attempts can be defeated, and this will be discussed further
in the stealth section.

On the legality question, the legality of poker botting has not been
court-tested to date. Even if it was, some of these casinos believe they
operate above the law and can do whatever they want to your account at
any time.

Elaboration on the fine points of these arguments is beyond the scope of
this document, but a vigorous discussion can be found on forums online,
including PokerAI (<http://pokerai.org/pf3/viewforum.php?f=80>). The
truth is that as long as casinos need to display the game state on your
computer screen, there will be a way to use a bot to play the game.
Simple fact.
