# What OpenHoldem is not

OpenHoldem is not a complete poker bot. There is much work you need to
do to utilize the framework effectively, however this manual and the
community on the forums can help you to do so. If you truly desire a
poker bot that includes logic written by someone else, a quick Google
search will turn up a number of likely candidates. Be aware, however,
that a pre-packaged, complete, click-Setup.exe-and-go, poker bot is not
a good way to be successful. Consistent and trusted positive results
from these pre-packaged bots are impossible to find. If pre-packaged
bots really worked, if we could have spent \$20 to make \$1000’s, we
certainly would have bought one ourselves, rather than spending the
thousands of hours to create this framework!

<figure>
<img src="images/openholdem/introduction/star_money.jpg" />
</figure>

OpenHoldem does not allow for automated collusion. Poker botting
currently is in a gray area of legality and morality, with many strong
perspectives on both sides of the argument. The OpenHoldem development
team strongly believes that automated collusion is clearly illegal and
immoral, and will not provide the facility to help you achieve these
ends.

OpenHoldem is not a general-purpose poker botting engine for all styles
of poker. It was intentionally suited only to the Texas Hold’em flavor
of poker favored by the majority of online players today, and at present
it supports “four-card-Hold’em” also. But don’t ask if it supports Stud
or Razz — it does not.
