# Actions

The main code sections of Open-PPL consist of when-conditions with
actions. They look e.g. like this:

    ##f$preflop##
    // Openraising on the button
    WHEN (Raises = 0 and Calls = 0 and StillToAct = 2)
        // Normal openraises
        WHEN ((Hand$AA) or (Hand$KK)...) RaiseTo 3 FORCE
        // Pushing according to Sklanky
        WHEN (StackSize < 20 and ((Hand$ ...) OR ...)) RaiseMax FORCE

OpenPPL provides 3 kinds of actions:

## Fixed Actions

Examples look like

```c
    BetMax FORCE
    RaiseMax FORCE
    Allin FORCE        // synonym for BetMax and RaiseMax, but no standard PPL
    BetPot FORCE
    RaisePot FORCE
    BetThreeFourthPot FORCE
    RaiseThreeFourthPot FORCE
    BetTwoThirdPot FORCE
    RaiseTwoThirdPot FORCE
    BetHalfPot FORCE
    RaiseHalfPot FORCE
    BetThirdPot FORCE
    RaiseThirdPot FORCE
    BetFourthPot FORCE
    RaiseFourthPot FORCE
    Bet FORCE          // min-bet (fixed limit)
    Raise FORCE        // min-raise (fixed limit)
    BetMin FORCE
    RaiseMin FORCE
    Call FORCE
    Check FORCE
    Fold FORCE
    Beep FORCE         // beep, but don't act
```

Contrary to standard PPL OpenPPL does not distinguish bets and raises.
OpenHoldem treats them exactly the same way.

Please note: SitOut is no longer a supported action. In our opinion it
is beneficial to separate playing logic and hopper logic. Therefore
OpenHoldem provides some hopper-functionality, especially the functions
f\$sitin, f\$sitout, f\$leave and f\$close.

Please also note: fixed actions are functions from a technical point of
view, therefore they are case-sensitive.

## Actions With Fixed Betsize

Examples look like

    RaiseTo 3.5 FORCE

or

    RaiseBy 2.5 FORCE

RaiseTo specifies your final betsize, RaiseBy specifies the amount you
want to add to the aggressors bet-amount.

## Actions With Relative Betsize

Examples look like

    RaiseBy 70% FORCE

Here the betsize gets measured as a certain percentage of the pot (pot =
common pot + all players bets + the amount to call). Potsized bets are
always RaiseBy.

## Using Expressions For The Bet-Amount

Let’s assume you want to raise to 3 bb in an unraised pot, plus 1 bb for
each caller. With standard PPL this would result in clumsy code. But
with OpenPPL you can simply write:

    WHEN (Raises = 0) RaiseTo (3 + Calls) FORCE

If you want you could take this to extremes and write good code like the
following:

    ##f$MyFavouriteBetsizeForDryBoards##
        ...

    WHEN (...) RaiseTo f$MyFavouriteBetsizeForDryBoards FORCE

## Being strict: using “FORCE”

Every action in OpenPPL has to be terminated by the keyword “FORCE”. For
standard PPL this keyword was optional. If you left it out, it meant,
that the bot continued to evaluate and finally fell back to the default
logic. We deviated from that behaviour, as:

- in our opinion it does not make any sense to specify actions that have
  no effect.

- OpenPPL does not provide a default bot.

## Quickfolding bad hands

Most poker-sites provide pre-action-buttons to act before it is your
turn. Especially useful is the prefold-button that makes it possible to
click bad hands away and forget about them. Being able to click this
button with your bot has at least two positive effects: more human-like
behaviour and playing more hands per hour due to faster actions .
Nothing could be more easy:

    ##f$prefold##
        WHEN AmountToCall > 0 AND (hand$32 OR hand$43 OR ...) Return True FORCE

### Be aware of potentially unstable game-states!

Please note:

- prefold gets evaluated when it is *not your turn*. Therefore it might
  happen that OpenHoldem takes a screenshot, evaluates and acts while
  the casino updates its table-display and the game-state is unstable.
  “Garbage in – garbage out” will happen. Now let’s assume you have some
  super-nitty bot:



      ##f$prefold##
          WHEN (NOT ((Hand$AA) OR (Hand$KK))) Fold FORCE

  <img src="images/openppl/pokerstars_unstable_gamestate.png"
  style="width:7.30556in;height:1.75in" alt="image" />  
  ”Fold when I don’t have a good hand”. But here your good hand can not
  get recognized because your aces get only displayed partially. Your
  bot would fold pocket aces! To avoid problems like that it is
  recommend to code more fail-safe like in the first example: “Fold when
  I have a bad hand”. It won’t hurt that much if that command failed and
  worked only on the next heart-beat-cycle.

- There are even more consequences of potentially unstable frames:
  OpenPPL does its main calculations when it is your turn. Especially
  some more complex symbols which depend on the history of the game get
  updated only when we have stable frames to guarantee their correctness
  – RaisesSinceLastPlay or LastCallerPosition are examples. As a
  consequence these symbols will simply be undefined before your first
  action preflop. Therefore it is recommended to be extra careful about
  the GIGO-principle and stick to the most basic symbols only. But this
  is not too hard for prefold, is it?

## Backup actions

It may happen, that a certain action is not available, e.g. you might
want to raise by half the pot, but this is currently not possible, e.g.
because your opponent made a large raise and half-pot would be less than
the minimum. In such situations OpenPPL behaves in the following ways:

- betsize invalid (too less or too much (PotLimit or more than your
  balance)): betsize gets automatically adapted. This happens also to
  actions like RaisePot and RaiseHalfPot, that get executed with the
  f\$betsize-function.

- action can’t be executed, because it is not possible, e.g. there might
  be no raise-button, because you can only call (allin) or fold. Here
  OpenPPL behaves in the following way:

  - RaisePot if RaiseMax is not possible

  - Raise(Min) if RaisePot or RaiseHalfPot is not possible

  - Call if no Raise is possible

  - Check if no Call is possible

  - Fold if no Check is possible (default behaviour of OpenHoldem).

  This deviates from standard PPL again. However we have the following
  reasons:

  - OpenHoldem evaluates its technical functions in the order above (for
    details please refer to the OpenHoldem Manual).

  - we believe, it is better to behave in a more conservative way if an
    error occurs. Most probably you don’t want to push allin if you
    specify RaiseHalfPot as your desired action. With a min-raise you
    are probably more happy (or less unhappy).
